 . ESPANOL Ilhan Omar's meddling in Horn of
Africa earns boos at Somali American concert July
13 2022 Framed by Republican media as a
backlash against Ilhan Omar's woke politics the boos
of a Somali American crowd expressed growing anger
over the congresswoman's role in US meddling in
the Horn of Africa . Ilhan Omar was greeted
with vigorous booing during a July 2 concert
featuring Somali singer Suldaan Seeraar in Minneapolis . The
booing was so profound and so sustained that
it was impossible to mistake it for cheering
or all the thumbs down for thumbs up
. It reportedly went on for ten minutes or
more punctuated with Get out and Get the
fuck out of here Ilhan smiled gesturing at
the crowd to tamp it down as though
the adulation was just too much . Her husband
Tim Mynett stood at her side looking awkward
and confused then someone who seemed to be
a concert manager gestured at the crowd more
emphatically to tamp it down . Some say the
booing went on even longer while Ilhan went
through the process of presenting Suldaan Seeraar with
some sort of award . The singer shifted uneasily
from one leg to another seeming startled and
unsure what to do then reached out to
gesture at the crowd also asking them to
tone down their gestures of disapproval . This seemed
to be more than he had bargained for
when he agreed to share the stage with
the congresswoman . Congresswoman Ilhan Omar was booed last
night by thousands of the Minneapolis Somali community
last night at a Somalia Independence Day celebration
concert . Go home Go home Rebecca Brannon RebsBrannon
Seeraar is extremely popular in the Somali community
and was playing to a packed house he
s unaccustomed to boos . This was his first
concert in North America and he s likely
unfamiliar with Ilhan s record in the House
and on the House Foreign Affairs Committee s
Subcommittee on Africa Global Health and Global Human
Rights where she serves as vice chair . Karen
Bass currently chairs the subcommittee and vice chairs
the National Endowment for Democracy the regime change
wing of the US government and is all
but certain to become the next mayor of
Los Angeles come November . Ilhan an African immigrant
and the only Black person on the subcommittee
besides Bass is a shoe in to become
chair if Democrats hold onto the house unlikely
as that may seem . Many Africans shudder at
that thought however not only in Somalia her
country of origin and the rest of the
Horn of Africa but also in the African
Great Lakes Region and in diasporas from both
regions . When I organized a Twitter space discussion
with Somali American activists on Ilhan's record I
heard an outpouring of anger not only over
her perceived neglect of her district where violent
crime is surging but also over her role
in the removal of Somali President Mohamed Abdullahi
Mohamed and support for a candidate affiliated with
her personal clan . This was but one of
examples of the congresswoman's role in advancing US
meddling in the Horn of Africa . Ilhan Omar
meets with Kagame and Tedros as they plot
against Ethiopia In October 2021 Ilhan traveled to
Rwanda as a guest of its authoritarian president
and war criminal Paul Kagame a of global
elites . She then proceeded to vote against a
House resolution to call on Kagame to free
political prisoner Paul Rusesabagina In Rwanda on a
private visit Congresswoman Mrs stopped by our offices
today for a presentation of the Foundation and
other programmes initiated by Our Chairperson Imbuto Foundation
Imbuto David Himbara a former economic advisor to
Kagame and Tom Zoellner author of Rusesabagina s
biography slammed Ilhan in a writing that her
relationship with Kagame threatened to throw her entire
stance on the U . S . criminal justice system
into a light of hypocrisy . With regard to
the Ethiopian civil conflict Ilhan has directed her
criticism squarely at the government even as it
defends Ethiopia from attack by the US backed
Tigrayan People s Liberation Front TPLF which ruled
the country brutally for 27 years from 1991
to 2018 and waged war against Eritrea . On
April 7 of this year the congresswoman met
with former TPLF Foreign Minister Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus
to discuss global health security challenges including the
status of the global COVID response the global
hunger crisis and ways to improve digital technology
to broaden healthcare access . Yesterday we met with
to discuss global health security challenges including the
status of the global COVID response the global
hunger crisis and ways to improve digital technology
to broaden healthcare access . Rep . Ilhan Omar Ilhan
Tedros has relentlessly abused his global platform as
Director of the World Health Organization in violation
of UN rules about political neutrality to advocate
for Tigray home of the TPLF as though
it were the only Ethiopian region suffering the
consequences of the war . He never mentions the
immeasurable suffering caused by TPLF invasions of Amhara
and Afar Regions both of which I traveled
through in April and May . After Ilhan's meeting
with Dr . Tedros members of the Ethiopian community
unsuccessfully demanded that they release the minutes of
the meeting . On several occasions Ilhan has asked
the State Department for legal determinations as to
whether the Ethiopian government is guilty of atrocities
. Meaning in fact illegal determinations because the assumption
she has advanced is that the US has
the right to rule that international crimes most
of all genocide war crimes and crimes against
humanity have been committed and action must be
taken as in Libya and Syria . According to
international law codified in the UN Charter only
the UN Security Council can do that . On
December 21 2021 while questioning Assistant Secretary of
State for African Affairs Molly Phee Ilhan requested
an illegal legal determination regarding Ethiopian atrocities called
for an arms embargo on Ethiopia which would
make it unable to defend itself and proposed
a carrot and stick approach to bringing Somalia
to heel . Ilhan Omar backs Cold War style
measure to bully African nations into submission On
April 27 Ilhan voted to pass H . R
. 7311 Countering Malign Russian Activities in Africa Act
along with all the rest of the House
Democrats and all but nine Republicans H . R
. 7311 directs the executive branch to bully African
nations with sanctions and withdrawal of foreign aid
if they get too close to Russia and
to invest in engage or otherwise control strategic
sectors in Africa such as mining and other
forms of natural resource exploitation . The House passed
H . R . 7311 roughly two months after 17
African countries either voted to abstain or did
not vote on a UN resolution condemning Russia
for invading Ukraine and Eritrea dared to vote
no . The African states voting no comprised just
over half of the 35 UN member nations
that opposed the measure . a harshly punitive bill
that would sanction Ethiopia and Eritrea is now
pending in the House Foreign Relations Committee . According
to Ilhan's constituents she has not spoken out
against it although she did make a splash
by voting against the embargo on Russian oil
. Why was Ilhan Omar booed at Suldaan Seeraar
s Minneapolis concert This writer joined a opened
by Somali American community organizer Abdirahman Warsame 294
Somali Americans and a few Somalis despite the
distant time zone joined the space . Many of
the Somali Americans participating were from Ilhan s
Minneapolis district and some of the younger ones
had attended the concert . Abdirahman told me that
activists with the NoMore Global Movement for Solidarity
in the Horn of Africa had planned to
get a few front row seats at the
Suldaan Seeraar concert to boo Ilhan and that
once they started it was like a match
in a haystack . Everyone in the Twitter space
was furious because Ilhan did her best to
help the US displace President Mohamed Abdullahi Mohamed
aka Farmaajo whom they described as a decent
responsible corruption fighting anti imperialist . Farmaajo had joined
Ethiopian Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed and Eritrean President
Isaias Afwerki in signing the Joint Declaration on
Comprehensive Cooperation Between Ethiopia Eritrea and Somalia which
ended the long running war between Ethiopia and
Eritrea and promised a new day of regional
cooperation between the three largest nations in the
Horn of Africa . It said Considering that the
peoples of Ethiopia Somalia and Eritrea share close
ties of geography history culture and religion as
well as common interests the three countries shall
build close political economic social cultural and security
ties . The three governments hereby establish a Joint
High Level Committee to coordinate their efforts in
the framework of this Joint Declaration . That however
was more peace and independence than the US
government could tolerate as many on the Twitter
space angrily confirmed . Now with Farmaajo out of
office the alliance is considerably weakened . The peace
between Ethiopia and Eritrea still stands although the
US backed TPLF keeps skirmishing with its troops
on their common border and Eritrea is helping
Ethiopia in its civil war with the TPLF
in Welkait . Ilhan put an enormous effort into
getting rid of Farmaajo in a parliamentary election
which many in this Twitter space said was
actually clan based and manipulated by bribery . Last
year on December she quote tweeted a State
Department threat to take action if Somalia did
not hold elections immediately stating Farmaajo is a
year past his mandate . It's time for him
to step aside and for long overdue elections
to proceed as soon as possible . Her comment
was widely republished to make the case against
Farmaajo in the US press . Farmaajo is a
year past his mandate . It's time for him
to step aside and for long overdue elections
to proceed as soon as possible . Ilhan Omar
IlhanMN Both the president and the parliament were
at that time in office past their constitutional
terms . That made Farmaajo interim president but the
states of Puntland and Jubaland refused to recognize
his authority . Elections had been repeatedly planned but
postponed due to disagreements between parties and lack
of election infrastructure . In addition the Islamist Al
Shabaab was continuing to oppose the existence of
a secular Somali state and the US was
still bombing on occasion . According to those in
the Twitter space Farmaajo had been fighting to
establish a direct one person one vote electoral
process to replace the corrupt system of parliamentary
election . They said he would have won in
a landslide had he succeeded . As soon as
Farmaajo was defeated on May 15 even before
the formal transfer of power Biden announced a
plan to reintroduce troops to Somalia . The New
York Times reported the news without raising an
eyebrow but the fury expressed in the 194
reader comments was palpable . Most commenters were Americans
outraged that the US would be introducing more
troops anywhere after the Afghanistan debacle but they
also included this response by a Somali American
edited very slightly for punctuation and grammar Shakur
Abdull Columbus OH May 17 Somalia s federal
government just re elected former president Hassan Sheikh
Mohamud less than 48 hrs ago . The former
president Mohamed Abdullahi Farmaajo who was previously a
US citizen and resident of Buffalo NY has
lost the election due to parliamentary bribery corruption
and foreign nations interfering spending millions of dollars
to overthrow Farmaajo . Those nations included Kenya U
. A . E . others . It s not surprising news
to witness the Biden administration seeking to have
US military presence in Somalia since Hassan Sheikh
s election because President Farmaajo would ve opposed
it . Furthermore this move will only increase security
risks and destabilize the Horn of Africa . Sending
US military troops now to Somalia is unnecessary
and those troops will be viewed as enemies
to the nation and its serenity . The Somalia
army has been fighting Al Shabaab and all
terrorist activities within the region . The army are
well trained by the US Turkey Eritrea and
so on but the Somalia government is faced
with an arms embargo which limits its abilities
and its operations . If President Biden wanted to
offer solutions or a hand then the approach
would ve been totally different than resending American
troops back into a hostile situation . Former US
President Trump s hands off position in foreign
affairs was exceptionally appreciated . Also as soon as
Farmaajo was gone and even before the formal
transition of power an oil and gas extraction
contract with a US corporation that Farmaajo had
blocked was back in play . The July 6
Twitter space on the booing of Ilhan Omar
contained similarly angry commentary by Somali Americans about
her imperialist foreign policy positions . After the discussion
several participants sent over the following pointed statements
Deeqa Deeqa lulu I am a Somali woman
and I think I would have obtained my
rights and my future would have been better
in Somalia if I had the opportunity to
vote for President Farmaajo but we didn t
have the one person one vote system that
he was trying to put in place . Ilhan
Omar is originally from Somalia and she has
a daughter my age who can vote for
her own president in America . She says she
believes in democratic principles and she s a
member of the Democratic Party but she didn
t support a very important right for me
the right to vote in a one person
one vote election . Is this about the Democratic
Party or about US foreign policy toward Somalia
Either way I feel bad and frustrated that
she hasn't changed that . Why would I expect
Joe Biden to understand my problem if Ilhan
Omar doesn t I contacted my family in
America and told them not to give their
votes to the Democratic Party or to Ilhan
. Our 2022 election here in Somalia was eye
opener for us about the Democratic Party policy
toward Somalia . We want to vote here in
Somalia . That s one of my biggest dreams
now . Deeqa Mohammed Caanogeel MCaanogeel1 Ilhan Omar is
being used by the Democratic Party whose foreign
policy has been aggressive and counterproductive towards Somalia
. She got booed at the concert for two
reasons Domestically she promised the East African community
help with gun violence and drugs in our
community and she hasn t helped us with
that at all . Internationally she undermined our sitting
Somali president President Farmaajo by tweeting and making
speeches that he was no longer the president
of Somalia even though the constitution of Somalia
gave him legitimacy to continue until another president
took over . She was helping the US government
undermine this president who had captured the hearts
and minds of all Somali people . Farmaajo enjoyed
90 popularity for good governance . This president introduced
reforms into the economy to win debt relief
from the IMF and World Bank but Ilhan
voted against debt relief here in the United
States . Farmaajo asked the US to lift the
arms embargo so that our army could fight
the Al Shabaab fundamentalists but Ilhan refused to
vote for that . President Farmaajo was loved for
his stability transparency and fairness . He made us
proud by building the military and making our
intelligence one of the top 10 in Africa
. He built institutions back after 30 years of
war invited foreign embassies into Somalia and established
embassies abroad . He became such a role model
president that the Somali people bought him a
home library and offices for future campaigns . Even
poor people loved Farmaajo so much that they
gave to this fund drive for him . Ilhan
joined US policymakers in rejecting all his good
deeds rejecting what the Somali people wanted rejecting
one man one vote and instead threatened to
cut off aid . She and the rest of
the US government seek only the worst for
Somalia . As we write to each other the
US military has overtaken Berbera Airport and brought
a warship to Berbera shores . Mohammed Caanogeel Ilhan
ignores the boos in a safe blue district
After the booing episode Fox gleefully hosted Ilhan
Omar s Republican challenger Cecily Davis to mouth
meaningless platitudes about how her opponent is out
of touch with her constituents claiming they are
ready for change and are seeking someone who
represents their conservative values . Davis appeared to be
completely ignorant about why an audience of Somali
Americans might boo their Somali American representative . The
same was true of other right wing outlets
who framed the booing as confirmation that Ilhan
s woke identity offends her own community and
that their candidate was therefore a serious contender
. Shukri Abdirahman a conservative Republican who previously ran
to unseat Ilhan also highlighted the congresswoman's woke
positions on social issues as a source of
local resentment but also made sure to point
to Ilhan becoming an election meddling dictator in
the foreign affairs of Somalia a sovereign nation
. Understanding The Booing Ilhan Omar getting booed and
being told to get the f ck out
by our Somali community is not just a
revolt against Ilhan selling her soul to the
devil and becoming an election meddling dictator in
the foreign affairs of Somalia a sovereign nation
. 1 3 Shukri Abdirahman ShuForCongress Abdirahman Warsame no
relation to Shukri told me that some culturally
conservative Somalis had told him they were uncomfortable
with Ilhan s defense of abortion and LGBT
rights but no one expressed that discomfort in
the Twitter space . Minnesota's 5th District is the
in the state so the incumbent merely has
to win the August primary to win the
election and she is expected to though perhaps
not by the margin she d like . However
the House is all but certainly turning red
so the next chair and vice chair of
the House Foreign Relations Subcommittee will in all
likelihood be someone other than Ilhan Omar . Ann
Garrison Ann Garrison is a Black Agenda Report
Contributing Editor based in the San Francisco Bay
Area . In 2014 she received the for promoting
peace through her reporting on conflict in the
African Great Lakes Region . She can be reached
on Twitter and at ann at anngarrison dot
com . Related Posts December 14 2018 October 26
2021 March 12 2020 April 8 2022 November
30 2021 December 31 2021 Copyright The Grayzone
Type to search or hit ESC to close
See all results